.. _CW20-Infrastructure: 

CW20 Infrastructure
====================

For the in-person event, we had planned to use tools such as `Slack <https://slack.com>`_ Slack, `Slido <https://www.sli.do/>`_ and `uCONFLY <http://uconfly.org/>`_, however for the online event we felt that it was important to minimise the number of platforms that participants had to register with and keep track of. We narrowed our needs down to platforms for 
1. Video conferencing
2. Chatting/networking/communicating
3. Collaborative note-taking/documentation 

Zoom was very quickly identified as the video conferencing platform that we would use because we had the most experience with it and it had the functionality we needed (namely breakout rooms and easy recording of the event). We initially planned to use a single Zoom meeting room to contain the entire event (with breakout rooms used for discussion, collaborative ideas, and mini-workshop sessions). However, workshop facilitators also wanted to make use of the breakout room feature for their sessions, which wouldn’t be possible if they were already in breakout rooms. We therefore acquired five Zoom Host accounts in total to accommodate this: one for the main/plenary room, plus four for the mini-workshops which would take place in parallel. 

Although Zoom has chat functionality, it can be distracting for hosts/speakers and difficult to manage when there are many participants using it. We decided to disable the Zoom chat (except for the case where participants could communicate directly with the meeting Host) and direct engagement and communication to the CW20 Slack workspace, as this would allow participants to connect even when the Zoom room is closed. Participants were able to create channels for their discussion groups and Hack Day teams, and Slack also allowed for a more human and informal engagement through the creation of channels such as #pets-at-cw20, #kids-at-cw20 and #outside-my-window-cw20 for sharing photos of our pets, children and working from home environment during lockdown.

The final resource that we needed to decide on was what platform to use for collaborative note-taking - a method for participant interaction and engagement that we learned from communities such as Mozilla Open Leaders, rOpenSci and NL-RSE Meetups. Google Docs was the obvious choice for CW20, as we generate a lot of Google Docs through uCONFLY for the various sessions anyways, and it also has the lowest barrier to accessibility (no need to log in or register and you do not need to know specific syntax or markdown language such as with HackMD). We created a note-taking document for each day which contained the full agenda and all relevant event information, a space for roll call, instructions and links (links to Zoom rooms for parallel sessions, discussion group and collab ideas documents, etc., see e.g. https://bit.ly/ssi-cw20-day1-notes). There were spaces created within the document for people to take notes during the talks and to ask any questions; all of which could be preserved and referred back to in the future. Crucially, general guidance was included at the top of the document reminding participants of the Code of Conduct (and reporting procedure), that the event was being recorded (so to mute any audio/video as necessary), security precautions (warned not to share any of the links publicly to avoid the meeting getting sabotaged by “Zoom-bombers”), and all the pathways to engagement (notes documents, Slack workspace, etc.). We also provided space for feedback at the end of the document on what worked well during the workshop and what didn’t.

Normally, we require CW participants to register on the SSI’s unconference resource management system uCONFLY, which allows them to request instances of Google Docs for their group sessions and vote for the best Collaborative Ideas. It also allows all of the outputs from CW to be centralised. For CW20, we used uCONFLY purely as an admin tool by creating the templates for the Discussion, Collaborative Ideas and Mini-workshop sessions, and generating all of the needed instances ahead of time ourselves. We then collated them via Google Sheets (see e.g. https://bit.ly/ssi-cw20-discussion-topics, https://bit.ly/ssi-cw20-ideas-groups) which we linked to in the day’s collaborative note-taking document/agenda. 